1. One negative symptom of schizophrenia is flat affect.  A person with schizophrenia displaying signs of flat affect will show no emotion in situations that typically should evoke strong emotion.  For example, a person with schizophrenia might not show any signs of distress or anguish if told that a close family member has died.
Another negative symptom of schizophrenia is limited speech.  An individual with schizophrenia may speak with a more limited vocabulary compared to a person of similar intellect.
Social withdrawal is yet another sign of schizophrenia.  An afflicted person may show an unwillingness to engage in social activities.

2. Social anxiety disorder differs from specific phobias in the way the phobia is manifested.  For any given specific phobia, there is an irrational fear of a single event or object.  For social phobia (social anxiety disorder), there is an irrational fear of exposure to situations that involve other people.  For example, a specific phobia may be an irrational fear of spiders, while social anxiety disorder can manifest itself as a fear of giving a speech in front of an audience.

3. One type of dissociative disorder is known as dissociative amnesia.  Dissociative amnesia is considered a disorder because it disrupts a person's memory.  A person with this condition loses access to some part of their memory.  Typically, memory is lost for a single event that individual is trying to repress.
A second type of dissociative disorder is dissociative identity disorder.  Dissociative identity disorder is considered as such because it disrupts a person's identity.  In dissociative identity disorder, a person with the condition is at times unable to control his/her behavior relative to the situation.  This means that an individual may act in a certain manner that is not appropriate for the time and place.

4. To try and help someone with a fear of oatmeal, a therapist would try to use systematic desensitization.  The first step would be to teach the person relaxation techniques.  Once the subject is able to relax themselves using these techniques, the therapist can create a fear hierarchy in which the subject is exposed to the object of their phobia, oatmeal, in slowly increasing intensity over a long period of time.

5. The psychiatrist is taking a biomedical therapy approach to treating the client's anxiety disorder by prescribing an anxiolytic medication to the client.  A therapist would use a completely different approach to treat the client's anxiety disorder.  The approach the therapist will use is known as psychotherapy.  In psychotherapy, the therapist does not prescribe medications to treat any given disorder.  Instead, the therapist schedules sessions to talk to the client.  During these talks the therapist will likely draw from various philosophies of psychotherapy to create a plan for improving the client's quality of life.

6.  Mr. Kukdlaa should teach his clientele about the factors of interpersonal attraction to help his clients achieve a higher chance of success through his dating service.  His first piece of advice would be to suggest his client's improve their appearance because physical attractiveness is an important factor of interpersonal attraction.  His second suggestion would be to seek partners close by because proximity is another factor that greatly contributes to a person's attractiveness.  Lastly, the counselor could advise his clients to list their interests and hobbies because similarities in interests, hobbies, and other shallow things can act also factor in to one's attractiveness.

7. The actor-observer effect is clearly demonstrated by Mrs. Brahmaparusha when she overanalyzes the situation to find multiple reasons for what caused the car accident.  She tries to find any kind of factor in the situation that may have led to the accident but does not consider her own influence.  In this example, she tries to find every opportunity to blame the accident on the other party involved.  
  When giving a report of the accident to the proper authorities, Mrs. Brahmaparusha would benefit from remembering the actor-observer effect and how it relates to her situation.  This way, she can focus on sharing facts and only facts about the accident without giving her own biased reasons for why the accident happened.  When giving only facts, her case will be highly in her favor when investigators determine it was the other party at fault.

8.  Little League games are often considered tinderboxes for violence because of the psychological concepts of prejudice and discrimination.  From a psychological standpoint, prejudice is the idea of people having strong emotions based on their stereotypes of a given group of people.  These prejudices can manifest themselves physically as discrimination if someone decides to act on their prejudice.
  Baseball games involving young children on opposing teams can create this environment of groups of people harboring prejudice towards the other.  When conflict arises, e.g. an arugment about an officiating call in a game of baseball, people from either group may decide to take violent discriminatory action.
  A way to try and solve this problem would be to find commonality between these different groups of people.  In finding things these different groups of people have in common, members of each group can learn more about the other and start to develop a more accurate set of beliefs about them that are less rooted in stereotypes and more based on first-hand experience.  A possible suggestion would be to schedule community events in which parents, players, and coaches of different Little League teams can come together in a non-confrontational environment such as a fundraiser or civic voluntary engagement.
